

It was requested that we put together a complete summary of the guidance around performance as we have it right now, so hopefully this will answer a few questions and make things a little clearer (as much as possible, given some of the terrible guidance we're receiving). 

First, there are 2 attachments above for you.
One is the old self-assessment narrative that we have used for USA Performance.
As of right now, that should still be completed and provided to your supervisor as well as uploaded to USAP.
The other is the narrative that is required for the new PCAS system.
This one should be completed in the PCAS system, but if you want to complete the PDF and just copy/paste that might be a little easier.
The first question on this narrative is basically a summary of what you put in your USAP Self-Assessment, so you can use some of that for this assessment as well. 
The last question asks about your contributions to the administration's priorities. Thank you to Leidy and Sam Penico for providing some highly-relevant EO's that a lot of our work contributes and aligns to:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/06/sustaining-select-efforts-to-strengthen-the-nations-cybersecurity-and-amending-executive-order-13694-and-executive-order-14144/
https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2026/06/promoting-advanced-artificial-intelligence-innovation-and-security/
https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2026/06/securing-the-nation-against-advanced-cryptographic-attacks/

On to ratings and how those will work.
Supervisors will be rating you in USA Performance based on your goals and your self-assessments. 
These ratings will be provided to you upon completion.
We're not sure if these ratings will be included/evaluated as part of the calibration panel yet, but we will update you if we get an actual answer to this.
Supervisors will also be rating you on the new PCAS system.
These ratings will be provided to you upon completion (and should align with the USAP ratings).
These ratings will then be sent to the "calibration panel". It is not yet clear what this means or who will be involved in this panel. 
From the calibration panel, we believe there will be recommendations provided back to supervisors with regard to how the employee rated (and there is a chance their recommendation will be to deflate the employee's ratings). I want to make it clear, if this happens, the supervisor doesn't really have any options to prevent it. It is my recommendation that the supervisor simply comply, and provide the new rating to the employee, along with a copy of the recommendations that the calibration panel supplied (if possible). 

One last comment related to CRI. I don't want to give anyone false hope, but I want to be as transparent as possible; CSD leadership is currently in discussions about the criteria that is used to assess CRI eligibility. Specifically, they are discussing whether or not the 3.5 rating requirement is equitable given this new calibration panel and its potential outcomes. This doesn't mean those criteria will change, but it at least means that leadership understands the difficult position that most employees have been put in as a result of some of these policies and is trying to alleviate some of it. We will keep you posted if anything more comes of this. 

As stated yesterday, if there are any questions or if any of you need help pushing back on tasks/meetings right now to be able to complete these forms, please don't hesitate to ask. 
